Recruitment Analytics Platform for HR Professionals.

A two-part web application detailing the "Prediction of an Applicant's Job Offer Acceptance" and the "Prediction of Employee Attrition". As one of the causes of unemployment (getting picky in jobs), it is absolutely helpful in HR management in knowing the rate at which shortlisted applicants are actually accepting the job offer. In Talent Acquisition, the number of shortlisted applicants actually accepting an offer is an important metric as it can directly affect the cost of Talent Acquisition. This metric is known as the "Join Ratio". In addition to the higher cost of acquisition, a low join ratio may result in direct loss of revenue because of placement delays in important client assignments. For the first module, we seek to predict if an applicant will either accept or decline a job offer. The features given here are determined to be the most important factors in an applicant's decision making.

Attrition in human resources refers to the gradual loss of employees over time. In general, relatively high attrition is problematic for companies. HR professionals often assume a leadership role in designing company compensation programs, work culture, and motivation systems that help the organization retain top employees. A major problem in high employee attrition is its cost to an organization. Job postings, hiring processes, paperwork and new hire training are some of the common expenses of losing employees and replacing them. Additionally, regular employee turnover prohibits your organization from increasing its collective knowledge base and experience over time. For this module, the goal is to predict employee attrition using the relevant features of the data. This predictive capability is useful for Talent acquisition management for predicting turnover is at the forefront of needs of Human Resources (HR) in many organizations.
